{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}}
{\colortbl ;\red247\green150\blue70;\red255\green192\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs40\lang9 Module 3 [Network Configuration]\par
\cf2\fs36 Topic: Local area networking\par
\cf3\fs40  Assignment level Basic:\par
\cf0 1. What is Network?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 a network is a collection of interconnected devices or computers that can communicate and share resources. \par
2. What is Internet & Intranet?\par
ANS. THE INTERNET IS A GLOBEL NETWORK CONNECTING MILLIONS OF DEVICES,WHILE AN INTERNET IS A PRIVATE NTWOERK USED WHITHIN A SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION \par
\cf3\f1\fs36\'b7\f0  Assignment level Intermediate:\par
\cf0\fs40 1. How many types of Network we used?\par
ANS. 1. LAN\par
          2. PAN\par
          3. CAN\par
          4. MAN\par
          5. WAN \par
2. Different between LAN & PAN?\par
ANS. PANS and PANS are unique in thier own ways.the major difference between these network is that a PAN connects the devices within the short range of an individual person,whereas a LAN connects devices at a single site,typically an office building.simillar to a PAM a LAN can be borth whired and wirless.\par
\cf3\f1\'b7\f0  Assignment level advance:\par
\cf0 1. Explain LAN?\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . A local area network (LAN) is a collection of devices connected together in one physical location, such as a building, office, or home.\par
2. What are different types of LAN devices?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 wired end-user devices\par
 mobile end-user devices \par
 centralized server\par
 network switch \par
 wi-fi router \par
 modem \par
 firewall appliance\par
\cf2 Topic: configured Network\par
\cf3\f1\fs36\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\par
\cf0\fs40 1. What is configured network?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 network cinfoguration is the process of assigment network settings,policies.\par
2. How do we configure network?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 ip address of each network interface on very machin.\par
host name of each machin on the network.\par
NIS,NIS+,or DNS domain name is which the machine resides,if applicable.\par
default router addresses.\par
subnet mask \par
\cf3\fs36 Assignment level Intermediate.\par
\cf0\fs40 1.How to check the ip address?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 select start>setting>network & internet> wifi and then select the wifi network you are connect to. under prooerties,look for your ip address listed next to ip4 address.\par
2.How to check the ip address through cmd?\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . In Command Prompt, type ipconfig and hit Enter. Scroll to IPv4 Address to see your local IP address.\par
3.How can we enter static address in network adapter?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 1. Access the Control Panel. In the Windows search bar, type in \ldblquote ncpa.cpl\rdblquote  and then press enter. ...\par
2. Select the Network Adapter. ...\par
3. Select Properties. ...\par
4. Select Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4) ...\par
5. Manually enter IP address and subnet mask. ...\par
6. Save Settings. ...\par
7. Revert Back to DHCP.\par
\cf3\fs36 Assignment Level Advanced\par
\cf0 1. Do a practical to release the packets from the adapter.\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . \fs40  done\par
2. Do a practical to renew the lease of the ip address.\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 DONE\par
\b0\fs22\par
\b\fs40 3. Do a practical to check the connectivity to the google.\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 done\par
\cf2\fs36 Topic: Wireless networking\par
\cf3  Assignment level Basic:\par
\cf0\fs40 1. What is the difference between WEP and WPA?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0 the wps wi-fi protocol is more security then WEP, because it uses a 256-bit key for encryption,which is a major upgrade from the 64-bit and 128-bit keys used ny  the WEP system.\par
2. What is Wireless Network?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf4 - The term wireless refers to the fact that it does not require any physical connection (such as a wire) between devices on the network. Instead, each device communicates with other devices by sending and receiving radio signals over the air\b0\fs28 .\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx3420\cf0\b\fs40\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\fs36 Assignment level Intermediate:\par
\cf0\fs40 1. What is a wireless network connection?\par
\cf3\fs28 ANS. \cf4\b0 - \b\fs40 A wireless network refers to a computer network that makes use of Radio Frequency (RF) connections between nodes in the network. Wireless networks are a popular solution for homes, businesses, and telecommunications networks.\b0\fs28\par
\cf0\b\par
\fs40 2. What are the basic concepts of networking?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf4 The foundations of networking: switches, routers, and wireless access points. Switches, routers, and wireless access point are the essential networking basics. Through them, devices connected to your network can communicate with one another and with other networks, like the Internet. \par
\b0\fs27  \cf3\b\fs36  Assignment level advance:\par
\cf0\fs40 1. what do you need to know about networking?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx3420\cf3   ANS\cf0 . LAN VS WAN.\par
Clients and servers.\par
DNS lookup & ip addresses.\par
ethernet.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. How do you explain computer networking?\par
\cf2 Topic: Wireless networking\par
\cf3 Assignment level Basic:\par
\cf0 1. What is the difference between WEP and WPA?\par
ANS. the WEP WI-FI protpocol is more security than WEP,because it uses a 256-bit key for enctyption,which is a major upgrand from the 64-bit and 128-bit keys used by the WEP sysyeam.\par
\fs44 2. What is Wireless Network?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf4\b0\fs28 - \b\fs40 The term wireless refers to the fact that it does not require any physical connection (such as a wire) between devices on the network. Instead, each device communicates with other devices by sending and receiving radio signals over the air.\cf3  Assignment level Intermediate:\par
\cf0 1. What is a wireless network connection?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf0  a wireless network refers to a computer newtwork that makes use of audio frequency connections between nodes in the network. wireless network are a popular solution for homes,businesses,and  \cf4 telecommunications networks.\par
\cf0\par
2. What are the basic concepts of networking?\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . C \par
\cf3  Assignment level advance:\par
\cf0 1. What do you need to know about networking?ANS. \cf4 - LAN vs. WAN.\par
Clients and servers.\par
DNS lookup & IP addresses.\par
Ethernet.\par
Default gateway.\par
Routers and switches.\cf0\par
2. How do you explain computer networking?\cf3 ANS. \cf4 - Computer networking refers to interconnected computing devices that can exchange data and share resources with each other. These networked devices use a system of rules, called communications protocols, to transmit information over physical or wireless technologies\b0\fs28 .\par
\cf0\b\fs40\par
\cf2 Topic: THE Internet\par
\cf3\fs36 Assignment level Basic:\par
\cf0\fs40 1. What do you mean by the term URL?\par
ANS. \cf4\b0 - \b A URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is a unique identifier used to locate a resource on the Internet. It is also referred to as a web address\cf0\par
2. Term which is used to see web pages is called what?\par
ANS. BROWSER \par
\cf3 Assignment level Intermediate:\par
\cf0 1. In the Ethernet which topology is used?\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . bus topologhy \par
2. Set of rules and regulations while working on internet, which term is used?\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . proyocol.\par
\cf3\fs36  Assignment level advance:\par
\cf0\fs40 1. What do you mean by RAS?\par
ANS. \cf4 - A remote access service (RAS) is any combination of hardware and software to enable the remote access tools or information that typically reside on a network of IT devices\par
1. what are the main search engines to get more website URL on internet ? \par
\cf3 ANS\cf4 . google.\par
bing \par
yahoo!\par
yandex.\par
duckduckgo.\par
firefox.\par
microsoft.\par
\cf0 2. What are the main search engines to get more website URL on Internet?\par
\cf3 ANS. \cf4 Google.\par
Bing.\par
Yahoo!\par
Yandex.\par
DuckDuckGo.\par
Firefox.\par
Microsoft.\par
\cf0 3. What does the PROTOCOL consist of?\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . \cf4 Google.\par
Bing.\par
Yahoo!\par
Yandex.\par
DuckDuckGo.\par
Firefox.\par
Microsoft.\par
\cf2 Topic: Virtualization\par
\cf3 Assignment level Basic:\par
\cf0 1. What is Virtualization\par
\cf3 ANS\cf0 . \cf4 Virtualization is technology that you can use to create virtual representations of servers, storage, networks, and other physical machines. Virtual software mimics the functions of physical hardware to run multiple virtual machines simultaneously on a single physical machine\b0\fs28 .\par
\cf0\b\fs40\par
2. What is the Difference between Full Virtualization and Para Virtualization?\par
\cf3 ANS. - \cf4 The main difference lies in how the guest operating systems interact with the virtualization layer. Full virtualization runs unmodified guest OSes, while para virtualization requires modifications and uses hyper calls for communication\cf0\par
\cf3  Assignment level Intermediate:\par
\cf0 1. What is Hyper-visor?\cf3\par
ANS. \cf4 - A hypervisor is a software that you can use to run multiple virtual machines on a single physical machine. Every virtual machine has its own operating system and applications. The hypervisor allocates the underlying physical computing resources such as CPU and memory to individual virtual machines as required.\par
\cf0\par
2. What are different hypervisors available in Linux?\par
\cf3 Ans\cf0 . \cf4 - VMware is a popular choice for virtualization, and offers the ESXi hypervisor and vSphere virtualization platform. Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM) is an open  source option and is built into the Linux\'ae kernel. Additional options include Xen, which is open source, and Microsoft Hyper-V.\par
\cf0\par
3. What is Virtualization and what are its types?\par
\cf3 ans.  \cf4 Virtualization is a process that allows a computer to share its hardware resources with multiple digitally separated environments. Each virtualized environment runs within its allocated resources, such as memory, processing power, and storage\b0\fs28 .\cf0\b\fs40\par
\cf3 Assignment level advance:\par
\cf0 1. Name the components that are used in VMware infrastructure What is benefits of\par
Virtualization?\cf3\par
ANS. \cf4\fs44 - By separating physical hardware from operating systems, virtualization can provision compute, memory, storage and networking resources across multiple virtual machines (VMs) for greater application performance, increased cost savings and easier management\b0\fs28 .\par
\b\fs40 Benefits : \par
Greater IT efficiencies.\par
Reduced operating costs.\par
Faster workload deployment.\par
Increased application performance.\par
Higher server availability.\par
Eliminated server sprawl and complexity.\par
\b0\fs28\par
\cf0\b\fs40\par
}
 